Now the show AJAX loader or AJAX spinner in
our page, we're going to use font awesome.
So let's navigate to font awesome dot com
Here
let's find spinner
so here we're going to use this font and later we'll
use special class to give rotate effect to the font.
Here
you can also use other class such as spinner third, circle notch
or other class
but I'll stick with this spinner. Actually bootstrap also
provides spinner which does the similar thing.
Here you'll find two types of spinner
border spinner and growing spinner
and you can also control the class such
as primary secondary and so on.
So feel free to choose font awesome or bootstrap
spinner because they do the same thing.
But here I'll stick with font awesome.
All right let's go back to our editor. Then here
Let's pull open
font
awesome
dot js.
Here let's add fa spinner
and let's add our font to the font awesome library.
Once the font registered now let's
open up questions dot vue
and right after the card
body, let's add another div
then we'll specify style attribute. In there we'll set
the color to ddd and adjust the text alignment
to center.
Inside here
let's call our spinner fa fa spinner.
Then as I said to give rotate effect we'll add fa
spin. We will also need to control the font size.
Here I'll make the font size maybe three times
bigger from the standard fa three times. OK
let's save all these changes
and let's see how that look.
All right
Here we have our spinners show up.
Obviously this spinner should be disappear once
the request finished and we get the response back.
So to do that let's go back to our editor.
And here let's cut these lines
and instead we'll add spinner component which will create shortly.
OK
let's go to js components, create new
file and save it as spinner dot vue,
add template and paste the markup.
Here
let's cut these styles and instead let's add
class spinner
than here
outside template let's add style
we don't need this lang attribute just add scoped.
Here let's define the spinner and paste the styles here
All right
now let's register this component. Since this
component could be used across pages
so we're gonna register it globally. So let's open app dot js
here
firstly let's import the spinner component import
spinner from components spinner dot vue.
Then we can register globally using vue component
like this. Actually we no longer need this question
page, so let's remove this and instead will register globally
the spinner component
OK
let's save and
let's see.
OK it's still in there.
Let's go back to our editor,
back to questions component,
and here let's control this spinner to only
appear if the request is processing
so v-if request is processing
or we can simply say v-if loading
then here we can change this v if to
v else if. Alright
let's go to our script
and define
loading property and we'll set it to false so by
default will control the spinner to disappear.
Now we'll show the spinner before request being processed.
So let's go to methods
here in fetch question
let's show the spinner by changing the loading state to true
and then here in then method
we need to change the loading to false to hide the spinner.
Now since we are in a local computer
processing request is much faster.
So probably we couldn't see the spinner. So to simulate
a bit long request which could happen in production,
let's open up API questions
controller
in here
let's add php sleep function to delay the execution.
In this case I delay for two seconds. All right
let's save all changes
and let's see how that look.
Reload the page. Here we have our spinner appear then
it's disappear and we'll have all questions displayed
awesome. Back to our editor
and here you can remove this sleep function or you
can keep it as it was an add if statement and make sure
that this function only get executed in development only
so we don't need to worry in our production.
Now let me save this and let me see if still working just fine.
Reload OK it's still working just fine.
Now you can try to implement the spinner on other
pages such as Question details, my posts and so on.